Now it's time to create your
first table and insert some data
into your CrateDB cluster.
Let's get started.
Here I'm using the Cloud Console, so
with my cloud database, I've
selected console over here on
the left.
And this is an interface that
allows us to enter SQL
commands similar to the Crash
CLI.
We could also do these commands
in the Crash CLI, but I wanted
to show you the console in this
video.
If you're working with Docker,
you'll see a slightly different
interface, so you'll go to local
host port 4200, and you'll click
on this symbol over here, which
is the console.
From here, the process is
identical.
You just enter the SQL
commands that I'm going to show
in the cloud.
So first thing we need to do is
create a table.
I've got some SQL in the
clipboard, so I'm going to go
ahead and paste that and we'll
see.
We're creating a table here
called taxis.
It has some fields that describe
vehicles that are taxis in the
city of Chicago.
We're going to give them an id, a
status field, make model and
model years, some information
about the vehicle itself, what
colour it is, what fuel it
takes, whether it's wheelchair
accessible, etc.
If I press execute here, that
will go ahead and create the
table.
We can see what's happened, and
here in the doc schema we now
have a table called taxis and we
can look at it.
So what we need to do next is go
ahead and load up some data into
our table because there's
currently nothing there.
One of the ways that CrateDB
allows us to load data is by
copying it in from URLs.
So we've got a URL that
represents a CSV file that
contains data for our Chicago
Taxi data set, and we can see
that here.
The link for this will be in
your workbook.
What I need to do is copy this
link and I'm going to paste that
into a SQL command.
What I'm going to say is copy
and then the table name, tap
these.
That's the table we're going to
put the data into from then
where it's coming from.
So this URL here and then I'm
going to say return summary.
So I'm going to ask CrateDB to
return me a summary of what
happened when it attempted to
load all of these CSV records
into the database.
Let's click execute and you'll
see here we have a success count
and an error count.
I have 2655 records loaded with
no errors.
That's what we want to see, no
errors.
We can now go ahead and query
the data.
Having created that table, it's
now time to write our first
query again.
I have this in the clipboard,
and we're going to ask CrateDB
how many of each type of make
and model of taxi are there in
Chicago.
Which ones are the popular ones?
So we're going to ask it to
order them by the number of
occurrences.
So what we see here is that the
Toyota Camry is clearly the most
popular taxi.
There's 1098 of those, followed
by the Prius and the Sienna.
And most of the popular vehicles
here are all Toyotas.
So what we've got here is a very
basic query that we've run.
We've created a table and we've
copied data from a source on the
Internet, which in this case was
a GitHub repository.
You'll now need to work through
all of the commands in your
workbook to install the data set
for this course.